## On the G2V6 document boolean falsifiable statements

For helping those who wish to go through the path of falsifying <a href="https://gaveta.io"><b>@gavetaio/liber</b></a>'s <a href="https://gaveta.io/g2v6"><b>G2V6</b></a> document, we've organized here a list of verifiable boolean statements; you can officially invalidate them by opening an argumentative `pull request` on this repository proposing a change on its content.

For more information access the main document at: <a href="https://gaveta.io/g2v6"><b>gaveta.io/g2v6 — Another Failed Brazilian Republic</b></a>.

Given the fact that we, as sentient human beings, seem unable to grasp a multidisciplinary abstraction without fancifully imagining the existence of a multitude of infinite solutions, we have deliberately pushed the falsifiable paths to be done through international comparison; but, you can still abstractly argue about them, which will also be formally reviewed.

1. > No other country in Western Civilization history has ever fully annulled more than one million valid votes on a general election's party-list proportional representation due to the presence of invalid candidates on its official ballot on election day.

   - Brazil has achieved it for three consecutive elections: 2010 (1,829,844 excluded valid votes), 2014 (1,271,412 excluded valid votes) and 2018 (1,555,105 excluded valid votes).
   - For falsifying this, you'll need to find another country that, due to failure on its registration process, not only has allowed a high number of invalid candidates to campaign and be normally present on the ballot but also chooses to nullify its valid casted votes even on proportional representation elections by not attributing them to the candidate's party.

2. > No other country in Western Civilization history has ever allowed, on a full-scale general election, for more than 3% of invalid candidates to be normally present on its official ballots on election day.

   - Brazil has achieved it for three consecutive election cycles: 2010 (5.8%, 1,106 invalid candidates), 2014 (3.2%, 731 invalid candidates) and 2018 (4.0%, 1,060 invalid candidates).
   - For falsifying this, you'll need to find another country that, due to mishandling of its registration process, has allowed invalid candidates to campaign and to be normally present on the official ballots, on election day, on numbers above 3% of its total available candidates.

3. > No other country in Western Civilization history has ever allowed its judicial system the power to change a party-list proportional representation election result by fully nullifying valid casted votes given to a regularly registered and elected candidate — triggering a full rearrangement of its proportional party-seat distribution, with no election repeat.

   - In 2021, Brazil's Superior Electoral Court decided that this is a right on its power belt, having arbitrarily changed an election result by fully nullifying all valid votes casted to an election's most voted candidate, and, also removing them from its party; consequently triggering a complete rearrangement of its proportional party-seat distribution — with no election repeat.
   - For falsifying this you'll need to find another western country that uses a paty-list proportional representation and gives its judiciary system the power to nullify all valid casted votes given to a regularly registered candidate and its party, rearranging the proportionally distributed party seats at any time during the whole extent of the electoral cycle — with no election repeat.

4. > No other country in Western Civilization history has ever trusted 100% of its general elections on a DRE black-box machine without an independent physical auditory trail.

   - Since 2002, Brazil have trusted on a 1st-generation DRE black-box fully software dependant machine for 100% of its general elections.
   - For falsifying this, you'll need to prove that there is or was another western country that has used a DRE black-box machine for 100% of it's general elections — without production of an independent physical auditory trail.

5. > No other electronic voting machine in Western Civilization history has ever affected the quantitative electoral integrity of 3 elections in a single electoral cycle due to full polling station nullification of valid votes — with no election repeat.

   - In 2020, due to multiple electronic failures, the elections of Irupi/ES (S64/Z19), Várzea Paulista/SP (S172/Z242) and Presidente Vargas/MA (S108/S143) had its quantitative electoral integrity mathematically broken due to the nullification of all valid votes deposited on entire polling stations — none of these elections were partially nor fully recalled.
   - For falsifying this, you'll need to find another western country that widely uses electronic voting machines without paper audit trail that due to its electronic failure have ripped the integrity of 3 or more elections in a single voting cycle, and — going against its own legislature — refused to recall its voters, weighting on the failed machine the full responsibility for the unfair election result.

6. > No other country in Western Civilization history has ever presented an Election Result Granularity Ratio below 0.5, while using a voter-fixed polling station strategy and constitutionally guaranteeing the protection of the secrecy of the vote.

   - Brazil has achieved it in its 2010, 2014, and 2018 general elections.
   - For falsifying this you'll need to find another western country that have an overall ERGR bellow 0.5 while using a voter-fixed polling station strategy, and also guaraneeing the secrecy of the vote through its constitutional text.

7. > No other country in Western Civilization history has ever allowed for more than 4000 valid votes to have its secrecy exposed through unanimous voting on a single electoral cycle.

   - Brazil has achieved it in its 2018 General Elections exposing the secrecy of 4232 valid votes due to unanimous polling station voting.
   - For falsifying this you'll need to find another western country that have exposed more than 4000 valid votes due to unanimous voting on a single electoral cycle, while using a pre-election voter-fixed polling station stragegy.

8. > No other country in Western Civilization history has ever used an electronic voting machine for 100% of its general elections, that in a 3+ vote steps, doesn't allow the voter to review and change its full vote before commiting it into the system.

   - Since it's inception in 1996, the Brazilian DRE black-box interface, going against the country's own legislature (123), even being used in a 6 voting steps election, doesn't implement error-warning actions and mistake-prevention strategies; critically afecting its law-protected voter intent.
   - For falsifying this you'll need to find another western country that have used an EVM for the entirity of its general elections, with a 3+ voting steps, that didn't allow its voter to review and change its full vote before commiting to it.

9. > No other Supreme Court in Western Civilization history has ever ruled on a 2nd and 3rd generation voting machine, which increases vote security by allowing fraud-detection through a physical auditory trail, to be unconstitutional.

   - The Brazilian court have done it twice: in 2014 and 2020 on the basis of protection of the secrecy of the vote, its high cost of implementation, and for it being considered an unecessary regression from its failless 1st-generation fully software dependant machine.
   - For falsifying this you'll need to find another western country that constitutionally protects the equal value of the vote and its Supreme Court has ruled that the addition of a paper audit trail to a DRE black-box to be unconstitutional.

10. > No other country in Western Civilization history has ever given its EMB the power to choose to ignore an ex officio legislative responsibility of redoing a partial election due to nullification of votes that would affect its quantitative electoral integrity and final results.

    - The Brazilian legislature (EC65 A187, A201, A212), which alings with the European electoral heritage, openly protects its quantitative electoral integrity by requiring an ex officio remedy to be taken in the event of a polling station nullification affecting its final results; but, this is fully ignored by the country's EMB which has never repeated a partial election and refuses to act on it ex officio, even with multiple nullifications events occurring on every electoral cycle.
    - For falsifying this, you'll need to find another country that specifically requires an election to be repeated as a remedy for every quantitative integrity breach, ex officio, in its own electoral laws, and allows its EMB the right to fully ignore the legislative text.

11. > While the Brazilian EMB, going against its own Electoral Code (A146, L9504/A87, A177), arbitrarily insists on keeping its DRE Black-box everlasting punitive human interface: every time its election integrity can be affected by the total amount of nulled/slip votes, it is impossible to determine if its final result wasn't affected by the machine's critical usability issues.

    - This scenario can be verified on the Brazilian Presidential elections of 1998/I, 2002/I, 2006/I and 2014/II.
    - For falsifying this, you'll need to create a real-world UX randomized study for comparing the current Brazilian DRE Black-box interface with a control group using manual vote, and, an experiment group using a refactored human interface that aligns with the country's Electoral Code respect for the voter intent by implementing error-prevention and allowing for mistake-recovery.
